# Templates

Anathema has a template language to describe user interfaces.
This makes it possible to ship the template(s) together with the compiled binary so the
application can be customised without having to be recompiled.

The element syntax looks as follows: `<element> <attributes> <value>`

```
   Element name                                         
   |    Start of (optional) attributes
   |    |    Attribute name                            
   |    |    |          Attribute value
   |    |    |          |     Attribute separator      End of attributes
   |    |    |          |     |                        | Values / Text
   |    |    |          |     |                        | |
   |    |    |          |     |                        | |------+-+-+
   |    |    |          |     |                        | |      | | |
element [optional: "attribute", separated: "by a comma"] "text" 1 2 ident
```

Elements don't receive events (only `Component`s do) and should be thought of as
something that is only drawn to screen.

There is for instance no "input" element.
To represent an input the component would handle the key press events and 
simply pass the collected values as a string via state.

## Comments

Use `//` to add comments to a template:
```
    text "I will render"
    // text "I will not"
```

## Attributes

Element attributes are optional.

Attributes consists of a collection of `ident`, `:`, and `value`.

An `ident` has to start with a letter (`a-zA-Z`) and can contain one or more `_`.

Example:
```
element [attribute_a: "some string", attribute_b: false]
```

An attribute name is always an ident, however the value can be anything that
implements `State`.

## Default value types:

A literal value can be one of the following:

* string:   `"Empty vessel, under the sun"`
* integer:  `123`
* float:    `1.23`
* hex:      `#fab` or `#ffaabb`
* boolean:  `true` or `false`
* list:     `[1, 2, 3]`
* map:      `{"key": "value"}`

To access a state value use an `ident` (a string without spaces that is not
wrapped in quotes).

```rust, ignore
text "string literal"
text ident
```

## Elements and children

Some elements can have one or more children.

Example: a border element with a text element inside
```
border
    text "look, a border"
```

## Loops

It's possible to loop over the elements of a collection.
The syntax for loops are `for <element> in <collection>`.

Example: looping over static values
```
for value in [1, 2, "hello", 3]
    text value
```

Elements generated by the loop can be thought of as belonging to the parent
element as the loop it self is not a element.
See example below.

Example: mixing loops and elements
```
vstack
    text "start"
    for val in [1, 2, 3]
        text "some value: " val "."
    text "end"
```
The above example would render:
```
start
some value: 1.
some value: 2.
some value: 3.
end
```

For-loops also expose a `loop` variable that is set to the current loop iteration.

Example: `loop` variable
```
vstack
    for val in ["a", "b", "c", "d"]
        text "#" loop ": " val
```
The above example would render:
```
#0: a
#1: b
#2: c
#3: d
```

Note: For-loops do not work inside attributes, and can only produce
elements.

## If / Else

It's possible to use `if` and `else` to determine what to layout.

Example:
```
if true
    text "It's true!"
    
if value > 10
    text "Larger than ten"
else if value > 5
    text "Larger than five but less than ten"
else
    text "It's a small value..."
```

### Operators

* Equality `==` 
* Greater than `>`
* Greater than or equals `>=`
* Less than `<`
* Less than or equals `<=`
* And `&&`
* Or `||`

Note: just like for-loops it's not possible to use if / else with attributes.

To determine the value of an attribute depending on some condition this should
be handled by the state.
